EZP-30661: Improve the "Extending eZ Platform guide" section (#788)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/extending/extending_back_office.md

# Extending Back Office

## Custom Content Type icons

> To add custom icons for existing Content Types or custom Content Types in eZ Platform follow the instructions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add custom icons for existing Content Types or custom Content Types in eZ Platform, follow the instructions below.
```

### Configuration

> A configuration of the default icon for Content Type is possible via `default-config` key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A configuration of the default icon for Content Type is possible via the `default-config` key, e.g.:
```

> For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

```yaml
ezpublish:
    system:
       default:
           content_type:
              default-config:
                 thumbnail: /assets/images/mydefaulticon.svg
```

> To configure a custom icon you just need to replace the `default-config` key with a Content Type identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a custom icon, you need to replace the `default-config` key with a Content Type identifier.
```

> For example:

Reviewer: If you decide to apply the suggestion above (For example: -> e.g.:), please apply it to the whole section.

```yaml
ezpublish:
    system:
       default:
           content_type:
              article:
                 thumbnail: /assets/images/customicon.svg
```

!!! note "Icons format"

    All icons should be in SVG format so they can display properly in Back Office.

### Custom icons in Twig templates

> Content Type icons are accessible in Twig templates via `ez_content_type_icon` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Content Type icons are accessible in Twig templates via the `ez_content_type_icon` function.
```

It requires Content Type identifier as an argument. The function returns the path to a Content Type icon.

```twig
<svg class="ez-icon ez-icon-{{ contentType.identifier }}">
    <use xlink:href="{{ ez_content_type_icon(contentType.identifier) }}"></use>
</svg>
```

> If the icon for given Content Type is **not specified** in the configuration the default icon will be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the icon for a given Content Type is **not specified** in the configuration, the default icon is returned.
```

### Custom icons in JavaScript

Content Types icons configuration is stored in a global object: `eZ.adminUiConfig.contentTypes`.

> You can easily retrieve icon URL with a helper function `getContentTypeIcon`, set on a global object `eZ.helpers.contentType`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can easily retrieve the icon URL with the `getContentTypeIcon`  helper function that is set on the global `eZ.helpers.contentType` object.
```

> It takes Content Type identifier as an argument and returns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It takes Content Type identifier as an argument and returns one of the following items:
```

>  - URL of given Content Type's icon or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - URL of a given Content Type's icon
```

- [`content-edit-form-after`](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-admin-ui/blob/master/src/bundle/Resources/views/content/content_edit/content_edit.html.twig#L84)
- [`content-create-form-before`](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-admin-ui/blob/master/src/bundle/Resources/views/content/content_edit/content_create.html.twig#L60)
- [`content-create-form-after`](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-admin-ui/blob/master/src/bundle/Resources/views/content/content_edit/content_create.html.twig#L68)
- [`dashboard-blocks`](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-admin-ui/blob/master/src/bundle/Resources/views/dashboard/dashboard.html.twig#L30)
- [`calendar-widget-before`](https://github.com/ezsystems/ezplatform-calendar/blob/master/src/bundle/Resources/views/themes/admin/calendar/view.html.twig#L21)

### Base component classes

If you only need to inject a short element (e.g. a Twig template or a CSS link) without writing a class,
you can make use of the following base classes:

- `TwigComponent` renders a Twig template.
- `LinkComponent` renders the HTML `<link>` tag.
- `ScriptComponent` renders the HTML `<script>` tag.

> In this case all you have to do is add a service definition (with proper parameters), for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, all you have to do is add a service definition (with proper parameters), for example:
```
